Pay.
Welcome back.
So we're picking up where we left off by talking about cursors and more importantly we're going to see
how we can move the cursor around.
So we hit the end of the file last time and we tried to read again.
We couldn't move.
We couldn't get anything.
At the end of the file so we can show you how to move the cursor to the beginning or the middle or wherever
you want and I'm going to show you a couple of other additional probably more helpful methods for the
first thing I'll show is a method called seek so seek is how we can manipulate the position of the cursor
how we can reset it to the beginning or the tenth character whatever we want.
So we'll do the same file equals open and we call it file instead of f..
So a little bit better story.
I haven't changed the story.
So file that read We get the same thing I read again.
We're at the end so I don't get anything.
But I'm now going to update the file one second.
There we go.
This short story is really short.
Now it's a little longer the end let me delete this line at the end.
OK.
Now if I save this file I'm using this as an opportunity to show you the behavior here.
File itself doesn't really look like anything changed but this is interesting and somewhat counterintuitive
to how a lot of people think that files work and how when you read in a file a lot of people think that
it's a one time thing.
You don't actually have to open the file again to get the new changes.
There is a connection open between Python and the story that text file.
Like a little tube.
And so a change just occurred.
The cursor is at the same spot.
So I said the cursor was at the end of the file which is true or it was true for let's say wherever
that was.
Right.
Where was it.
We were like right here.
That was the end of the file.
But now we added these other lines and the cursor is still here in Python.
So it's not like a sublime thing.
The Python cursor is here and we just added this text and saved.
So now if I read again it's just going to read from there forward down to here.
So if I do that file that read we get.
Now it's a little longer and I think what did I do I think the cursor was here.
There was a newline character.
But the point here is that I made the file I opened it.
Then I made a change and I didn't have to reopen it.
I just read it again and you can see there's this pipeline between us between the file and Python.
OK.
So seek allows me to do things like right now I'm at the very end of the file if I did file but read
again or five you'll read if I call seek and seek zero will move the cursor to the beginning.
So now if I do file that read I get the entire story if I do so file but read again cursors at the end
so I can do seek and I can pass in a number like one which will take me to the first the first index
first character and if I do a file that read We should get his short story just like that.
And now we're at the very end again.
So file that read once again is empty.
So I could speak to the fiftieth character and do a file read.
And this is all that was left.
OK so that seek.
Next I'm going to show you another method.
This one is called read mine.
So I'm going to reset this file to go back to the beginning.
OK.
So my cursor is at the beginning and if I did a file by read it gives me the entire file.
But oftentimes I would say we're working with I don't know $100000 might be a bit much.
Twenty thousand lines in a file we could read it all at once.
But other times you want things in chunks or maybe just a single line at a time.
So we can do that with the file read line like this and this will basically read the first line it stops
when it hits the new line character right here.
And so that's what we get the first line.
And now if I did a file that read my cursor has been moved to the second line in the beginning of the
second line.
So we get those second two lines and I could reset it do find that read line and I can read another
line.
Now my cursor is at the beginning of the third line.
So I read another line and we get the last line and I do file the read line one more time and we're
done.
And the last method I'll show you is called read lines.
And if we just look at file access to help file and I'll scroll through a fast forward through this
area or read lines it returns a list of lines.
So unlike read which just gives you everything and read vine which goes gives you one line to time read
and gives you all the lines.
But it preserves them as separate lines instead of one giant string and it puts them in a list.
OK.
So if we try that if we do a file that seek back to the beginning and now I do file that read lines
I get this list and it preserves those lines.
So each one of these would be like running file read line and you guessed it my cursor.
So at the very end.
So it moves us all the way through.
It just happens to put them all instead of a list.
OK.
So at this point we've seen how to read individual lines read all lines and move the cursor around.
And we've also seen that until I manually closed the file any changes they make in here.
Whatever I'd do if I save and I do a file but read again those changes are in there.
So this connection is open.
So it's important for us to actually close files.
So it seems like you know anything else in Python would make a variable or a list.
If we're done using it we don't have to close it or do anything to it.
Python just takes care of it.
But with these files it's actually important that we manually close them basically just so we don't
use up system resources.
So the way we do it is using the file close method.
So we just code close and you can also check if a file is closed or not using the closed attribute.
And I should mention once you do close the file it can't be read again until you reopen it.
Basically start the whole process over.
So let's go back here and we're at the end it doesn't really matter.
But let's say I'm done you know I've imported the contents of the file and now I'm ready to do something
with them and I'm not going to write to the file.
And we should do a file that close and before that I mean just run a file but closed.
You can see the property is false.
But now if I file that close method if I look at file that closed now it is true.
So if I try and do a read we get this error value error IO operation on close file.
You can do that same thing if I try and seek or any of the other things I've shown you so far.
So we want to close the file and if we needed the data back we messed up and I need that story that
text.
I just reopen it.
OK.
So to recap.
Had to open a file we saw how to read it talked about cursors we saw do you seek to move the cursor
usually back to the beginning.
So how to use read line to get an individual line and read lines to get all lines in a list and then
also we saw how to close a file.
And that's important.
You need to always close those files whenever you're done.
Close it.
OK.
Moving on we're now going to talk about in the next video an alternate syntax that most people prefer
for working with files.